Concurrency overview page update (#5402)
dart-lang/site-www: src/language/concurrency.md

  }
</style>

This page contains a conceptual overview of how concurrent programming works in
Dart. It explains the event-loop, async language features, and isolates from
a high-level. For more practical code examples of using async features,

> read the [Asynchrony support](/language/async).

Author: This should be updated in the next PR to also reference the new isolates page.

For example, a client application might need to execute an HTTP request, 
while also listening for a user to tap a button. 
To handle this, Dart offers many async APIs, 
like [Futures, Streams, and async-await](/language/async).
These APIs are built around this event loop.

For example, consider making a network request:

```dart
http.get('https://example.com').then((response) {
  if (response.statusCode == 200) {
    print('Success!')'
  }  
}
```

When this code reaches the event loop, it immediately calls the
first clause, `http.get`, and returns a `Future`.
It also tells the event loop to hold onto the callback in the `then()` clause
until the HTTP request resolves. When that happens, it should
execute that callback, passing the result of the request as an argument.

![Figure showing async events being added to an event loop and
holding onto a callback to execute later
.](/assets/img/language/concurrency/async-event-loop.png)

This same model is generally how the event loop handles all other
asynchronous events in Dart, such as [`Stream`][] objects.

[`Stream`]: {{site.dart-api}}/{{site.data.pkg-vers.SDK.channel}}/dart-async/Stream-class.html

> ## Types and syntax for asynchronous programming

Reviewer: Once I got to the `## Isolates` section, I started thinking about how these sections will probably be used as the link to "define" async and isolates around the site, so maybe a more definitive section title would be better here. Also, one that mirrors the `## Isolates` section since they're kind of sister sections.

```suggestion
## Asynchronous programming
```

And then add the "types and syntax" thing to the intro sentence (commented below)

> If you're already familiar with `Future`, `Stream`, and async-await,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section summarizes the different types and syntaxes of asynchronous programming in Dart.
If you're already familiar with `Future`, `Stream`, and async-await,
```

(file I/O) executes. Using `await` also has the effect of converting
the `Future<String>` returned by `_readFileAsync()` into a `String`. As a
result, the `contents` variable has the implicit type `String`.

{{site.alert.note}}
The `await` keyword works only in functions that have `async` before the
function body.
{{site.alert.end}}

As the following figure shows, the Dart code pauses while `readAsString()`
executes non-Dart code, in either the Dart runtime or the operating. 
Once `readAsString()` returns a value, Dart code execution resumes.

![Flowchart-like figure showing app code executing from start to exit, waiting
for native I/O in between](/assets/img/language/concurrency/basics-await.png)

### Streams

Dart also supports asynchronous code in the form of streams. Streams
provide values in the future and repeatedly over time. A promise to provide a
series of `int` values over time has the type `Stream<int>`.

In the following example, the stream created with `Stream.periodic`
repeatedly emits a new `int` value every second.

<?code-excerpt "lib/stream_syntax.dart"?>
```dart
Stream<int> stream = Stream.periodic(const Duration(seconds: 1), (i) => i * i);
```

> #### await-for and yield

Reviewer: This is a great section! I didn't know anything about streams and found them intimidating before and now they seem simple and approachable

Await-for is a type of for loop that executes each subsequent iteration of the
loop as new values are provided. In other words, it’s used to “loop over”
streams. In this example, a new value will be emitted from the function
`sumStream` as new values are emitted from the stream that’s provided as an
argument. The `yield` keyword is used rather than `return` in functions that 
return streams of values.

<?code-excerpt "lib/await_for_syntax.dart"?>
```dart
Stream<int> sumStream(Stream<int> stream) async* {
  var sum = 0;
  await for (final value in stream) {
    yield sum += value;
  }
}
```

If you'd like to learn more about using `async`, `await`, `Stream`s and
`Future`s,  visit the [asynchronous programming codelab][].

[asynchronous programming codelab]: /codelabs/async-await

## Isolates

> Dart also supports concurrency via isolates. Most modern devices have multi-core

Reviewer: Since this section probably will be linked to from around the site (and outside the site) as the defacto isolate definition, we can't assume the reader read anything before this so "also" doesn't really work. We can say:

 ```suggestion
Dart supports concurrency via isolates, in addition to [asynchronous APIs](#types-and-syntax-for-asynchronous-programming).
Most modern devices have multi-core
```

The link to the earlier section is, again, because this might be the first part of the page someone reads. 

(Idk if saying "asynchronous APIs" makes sense though so feel free to change that)

CPUs. To take advantage of multiple cores, developers sometimes use
shared-memory threads running concurrently. However, shared-state concurrency is
[error prone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_condition#In_software) and can
lead to complicated code.

> Instead of threads, all Dart code runs inside isolates. Each isolate has its
> own global fields, ensuring that none of the state in an isolate is accessible

Reviewer: The last paragraph seems like it fits better up here (deleted in subsequent comment):

```suggestion
Instead of threads, all Dart code runs inside isolates.
Using isolates, your Dart code can perform multiple independent tasks at once.
Isolates are like threads or processes, but each isolate has its own memory
and a single thread running an event loop.

Each isolate has its own global fields,
ensuring that none of the state in an isolate is accessible
```

Notice I removed the clause "using additional processor cores if they're available." While that might be the case, I think it introduces unnecessary uncertainty, like "do I have additional processor cores available? what if I don't, can I use isolates? what happens if I try?" and stuff like that. If there's nothing the user can do about it and we're not going to elaborate on what to do otherwise, probably best not to mention it.

If you think it's the kind of thing that's important for developers to know or that they'd want to know, add it back (I don't have that context)

following figure, after `main()` exits, the main isolate handles the first
repaint event. After that, the main isolate handles the tap event, followed by a
repaint event.

If a synchronous operation takes too much processing time, the app can become
unresponsive. In the following figure, the tap-handling code takes too long, so
subsequent events are handled too late. The app might appear to freeze, and any
animation it performs might be jerky.

![A figure showing a tap handler with a too-long execution time](/assets/img/language/concurrency/event-jank.png)

In client apps, the result of a too-lengthy synchronous operation is often
[janky (non-smooth) UI animation][jank]. Worse, the UI might become completely
unresponsive.

[jank]: {{site.flutter-docs}}/perf/rendering-performance

### Background workers

If your app's UI becomes unresponsive due to a time-consuming
computation—[parsing a large JSON file][json], for example—consider offloading
that computation to a worker isolate, often called a _background worker._
A common case, shown in the following figure, is spawning a simple worker
isolate that performs a computation and then exits. The worker isolate returns

> its result in a message when the worker exits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its result in a message when it exits.
```

<?code-excerpt "lib/isolate_run_syntax.dart"?>
```dart
const String filename = 'with_keys.json';

void main() async {
  // Read some data.
  final jsonData = await Isolate.run(() async {
    final fileData = await File(filename).readAsString();
    final jsonData = jsonDecode(fileData) as Map<String, dynamic>;
    return jsonData;
  });
int slowFib(int n) => n <= 1 ? 1 : slowFib(n - 1) + slowFib(n - 2);

  // Use that data.
  print('Number of JSON keys: ${jsonData.length}');
// Compute without blocking current isolate.
void fib40() async {
  var result = await Isolate.run(() => slowFib(40));
  print('Fib(40) = $result');
}
```

This example accomplishes the same as the previous.
A new isolate spawns, computes something, and sends back the result.

However, now the isolate sends a [closure][].
Closures are less limited than typical named functions,
both in how they function and how they're written into the code.
In this example, `Isolate.run()` executes what looks like local code, concurrently.
In that sense, you can imagine `run()` to work like a control flow operator
for "run in parallel".

[closure]: /language/functions#anonymous-functions

> ### Sending multiple messages between isolates

Author: This section is removed until the next PR. Per suggestion by @parlough  (which I agree with), I'll want to reference the isolate example from the new isolates page rather than include it on both pages. So this will need to be added once there's something to reference.
